we are not a naturally
monogamous species we are a pair
bonding species but there's
social monogamy which is the
paramount and their sexual
monogamy which is never touching
anybody ever get with your
generals and we are not exactly
that before
no we need to split it we all of
these birds we used to look to
and think why can't we be
monogamous like we're like the
eagles and then yeah certain
case and little birds that would
make it would make for life with
and we would measure our failure
as humans to live up to the
standards set by these damn
birds along comes genetic
testing and we find out that
these birds are screwing around
on each other constantly that
they are socially monogamous
pair-bonded but they're not
section i was no primates with
testicles are size are are
monogamous sexually monogamous
women hidden mensis i'm not
saying all this to say that
people shouldn't go from
monogamy monogamy something they
want i'm not saying this to
argue that people have made a
monogamous commitment have
license to violate that
monogamous commitment and of
course that's what headlines
would do when they hear phrases
right out of your mouth and they
do what I'm saying is we are not
naturally monogamous it is a
difficult struggle for us Chris
Ryan sex writer uh in his books
exit on before you just know all
these sex writers well i did i
read them all
he points out that you know all
these cultures you know the disc
I religions death penalty for
adultery
well the same time we run around
arguing that monogamy comes
naturally to us as a species
well no other species has to be
threatened with death to do that
which comes naturally to it we
don't point guns at dolphins and
they swim right but we point
guns at each other and say don't
cheat because monogamy comes
naturally to us and so I'm not
my argument that isn't you
shouldn't have it you shouldn't
do it
my argument is we should be a
little compassion understanding
about the fact that monogamy is
a struggle that a monogamous we
we said we believe we told us
children is one day you will
grow up and fall in love with
someone and you will make a
monogamous commitment to them
and that means you're in love
with them and when you're in
love you won't want to have sex
with other people and the truth
is if you make a monogamous
commitment to someone you love
you will still want to have sex
with other people you will
refrain from it it will be
difficult and so perhaps we need
to look at people who have been
in 50-year marriages and only
cheated on each other once
twice and say they were good at
monogamy not bad at it
good at it and give them some
credit for having done this
thing that was difficult in
natural as a token of their love
and affection and commitment
almost completely successfully
protected like look somebody
standing on one foot for 50
years
that's kind of amazing if they
touch the ground two or three
times to get their balance we
wouldn't go
they sucked it standing on their
foot for 50 years I want